Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn the if statement in C.
So this is the syntax for the if statement and if the
condition is satisfied then the statements here will be executed
otherwise it won't be executed.
So we have a programme here to perform division operation
and we know that division by zero is not possible
So we need to restrict it so we can use
if statement to make sure that denominator is never zero.
So see here we have the code and in the
main function we are declaring two integer variables num1
and num2
And now we are asking the user to enter
two integers and suppose user enters 10 and 2
and that is read to num1 and num2
respectively
And now we have the if statement here
And if we are going to place only one statement
under if, then there is no need for parentheses and
that is why we don't have parentheses
here and if num2 not equal to
zero that is the condition
And here num2 is 2 which is not equal
to zero
So the condition is true And the statement inside will
be executed and num1 divided by num2 will
be printed and the result of division 10/2
which is 5 will also be printed
Now see another case where the user enters the integers
10 and 0
So actually we have to perform 10/0
which is not possible
So the if statement actually blocks that operation here. see
the condition is false
Num2 is equal to 0 so it skips the
inner statements and exits of the programme
And this is how we can use if statement in
many cases. So see an example to understand it more
clearly
If(rainy) take umbrella so the condition here is it
is raining
And if the condition is true, you want to take
the umbrella and if the condition is false, then you
don't want to.
So that's all and thank you for watching this video